Hello everyone
In this video let us discuss about the minimum coin
exchange problem
So assumed that we have this collection of five rupee
coins ₹10 coins ₹20 coins and ₹25 coins here
The problems statement is given a set of coins and
a value
We have to find the minimum number of coins with
satisfies the given value
Let us take the value as 50
The possible coins combination will be 2 ₹20 coins and
two five rupee coins two ₹20 coins and 1 ₹10
coin
5 ₹10 coins 10 five rupee coins two ₹25 coins
1 ₹20 coin and 3 ₹10 coins
etc
We can have different combinations of coins for the value
50 Each set will have a particular number of coins
first set is having four coins than three coins than
five coins than 10 coins
And like that our problem here is to get the
value with minimum number of coins and here the minimum
number of coins that satisfies the given value is 2
₹25 coins
We can solve this problem using the greedy approach
Let us see how in order to reduce the number
of coins we need to take the higher valued coin
first
So first we need to sort the given coins in
the descending order
Let us assume we need to give coins for a
rupees 110 to reduce the number of coins we
need to take the higher valued coins as much as
possible
So take the 25 of the coin as much as
we can
Since 25 is lesser than 110
1st take 1 25 of the coin and increment the
coin count
And now the number of coins becomes one
The balance amount is 110 minus 25 which is
85 since 25 is lesser than 85
We can take another 1 ₹25 coin and incremental coin
count
Now the number of coins becomes two and the balance
amount these 85 minus 25 which is 60 again 25
is lesser than 60
So take another 25 rupee coin and increment the coin
count
Now the number of coins becomes three and the balance
amount is 60 minus 25 which is 35 again
25 is lesser than 35
So take another 25 rupees coin
An increment coin count
Now the number of coins becomes four and now the
balance amount is 35 minus 25 which is 10 now
The remaining amount to be taken is ten but 25
is greater than 10
So we can't take ₹25 coins any more
So we need to check whether the second largest coin
satisfies the remaining amount
The second largest coin is 20 but the expected amount
is ten
So we can take ₹20 coins as well
So we need to check whether the third largest coin
can provide the expected solution
The third largest coin is 10 and our need is
also ₹10
So we can take 1 ₹10 coin in the solution
and we need to increment the count
Now the number of coins becomes five and the balance
amount is 10 minus 10 which is zero
The balance amount zero means that we have found our
solution so we can stop the process
The solution is four ₹25 coins and 1 10 rupees
coin
So the minimum number of coins needed to the amount
1 10 is five
Now that is Take another example
Let us take the value as 55 here we can
take two ₹25 coins since two into 25 which
is 50 is less than the actual value 55
So the coin count will be two
Now the balance amount is 55 minus 50 which is
five
We can take another ₹25 coin so moved to the
next coin
Now the expected value is five and since 20 is
greater than five we cannot take ₹20 coins as well
So move to the next coin which is 10 and
10 is also greater than five
So we can't take it So moved to the next
coin which is five here The expected value is five
so there is no problem
So at one five rupee coin to our solution and
increment the coin count so the number of coins becomes
three
Now the balance amount is five minus five which is
zero
That means we have found our solution and the solution
is to ₹25 coins and one five rupee coin
So the minimum number of coins needed to the amount
55 is three
So this is how the greedy algorithm finds the optimal
solution for the minimum coin exchange problem
In the next video we will learn how to implement
the minimum coin exchange problem and its algorithm.